DBMS is used to manage and store the data in a tabular form . It provides a tool or an interface for
performing various operations such as inserting, deleting, updating, etc. into a database. A DBMS system
helps a user to overcome problems like data inconsistency, data redundancy, etc. in a database and makes
it more convenient and organized to use it.

It is widely asked in almost all technical interviews .

The list of important topics when preparing for tech interview are : -

Advanatges of DBMS over the file system
Data Abstraction
2 tier and 3 tier architecture
DDL , DML and DCL commands(most important)
ER Model ,study about entity, entity set , attributes(also types of attributes) and relationship
Types of keys - super key,candidate key , primary key , alternate key and foreign key (most important)
Relational algebra(various operators like select , project ,intersection , union , multiplication and division)
Types of joins - inner join , left outer , right outer , full outer and natural join(most important)
Normalization - till third normal form and BCNF would be sufficient(most important)
ACID properties
Difference between information and data, physical and logical data independence,instance and schema , delete
and truncate , primary key and unique key , shared and exclusive lock (most important).
I have given various interviews and I am quite confident that these topics would be enough to study while
preparing for tech interviews . Also , you can refer to the documentations of tutorialspoint , javatpoint ,
geeksforgeeks and interview bit for answers to these and also go through commonly asked interview questions
where you will be getting more these types of interview questions to prepare well .In case , you have time
to prepare and you want to study thoroughly :-

You can watch some good youtube videos like GateSmashers , Jenny’s lectures and Knowledge gate.
You can even learn by practice . You can practice questions for SQL on hackerrank and leetcode for getting
fluency in writing SQL queries.
You can go for a Interview preperation course from Coding Ninjas .I myself have gone through the course and
found it very useful to prepare for tech interviews.
In the course , all the topics were covered , without leaving anything - Data models, ER models, Relational
Models, introduction to MySQL, SQL queries, normalizations, transactions, indexing, Classification of Databases
, NoSQL Databases, and Database optimization.
Teachers and mentors in the course are very supportive . They encourage discussion and learning by practice.
All the topics taught by them were based on real-world experience and the knowledge of was delivered in such
a way that it is easily understood by even a beginner .Also , every lecture was accompained by doubt sessions
in which all my doubts were resolved within no time .
The course has a hands-on approach with a live server environment where we can practice writing queries and
solving MCQs
In addition to this , the course provided Industry Relevant Problem Statement , where we practised exhuastive
set of 150 + interview level questions .
I would recommend you to at least take a try for this course , if you want to learn, as there is even an option
 of free trial where the intro topics are covered . Also some of the most important topics in SQL like SQL
 commands(DDL , DML and DCL) , managing database and Joining tables(inner join , left outer , right outer ,
 full outer) with practice questions are also there . This will also unable you to experience the delivery
 of content for free and then this would help you decide whether the purchasing course will be useful for
 you or not .

Hope you found the answer helpful . All your suggestions would be welcomed.

Thankyou !!